
v o< lAVI Vvi!l.7or>.V v i!1.7or>. 

jUTI ROSA DEAD. 500, 

wfIIHATE OF SURVIVOR. 
Destroyed— Shock in Ijos An 
relct-Ot"™ To*m* Suffer. 
Reports front liie cities around San 
j^ncisco show increasingly the ex 
jUaf the disaster. One town was 
jfonrifd destroyed in the southern 
pgrtof the state. 
' X rep° r * from Santa Ban says 
A,ttwo hotels there collapsed, lmry 
j*their occupants. A survivor esti 
jjjted the loss of life at .500. 
\ severe shock in l^os Angeles 
ifonit noon threw the people into a 
pgnic, but no damage was reported. 

JOI DIE IN HOTELS. 

firf Sweeps Santa Rosa — Loss of 
life Put at .'• 
I*.— The Santa R-«sa 
Grgrr . ■■•llaps^d and buried 
j 

Odtlarr. Cat. April 19.— C A. Duffy, of 
nwnubnr Ky . the only one out of several 
L t0 «scare from his fl >or of the Pt. Base 
Hbk' g , faiua ilosa. reached here to-daj% He 
vu fcr.prieor.pd fi\o hours before being rescued. 
<Tnre»fi* a^'>ut three hundred persops killed 
tuttf destruction of the three hotels of Santa 
Pea tat not fewer than five hundred in the 
,t O !e tnn-r. of Santa Rosa, according: to Duffy. 
*ifc«ih!'- section of Panta Rosa collapsed 
taiie'ef five minutes. Then the Bre burned 
4>>iEiwt fror.i one end to the other, starting: 
jt €t± tr.i and meeting in the middle, thus 
r *—: over T ' lc ra ns nnd bornins; the im 
... B people. 

£ga Francisco. April /10./ 10.— Reports from the 
fcrtrior are most alarming. Bants Rosa, one 
tf tin prettiest cities of the state, in the pms 
vtrx! amnty or Sonoma, is a total wreck. 
There are 10,000 homeless men. -women and 
mm bßfidled together. Tn loss of life is 
a»! to be estimated. 

Af the lsst pr'-at seism!c tremor spent its 
♦cr» jt, the earth the whole business portion 
ttrf)!cd into ruis.s. TT-.«» man street Is piled 
razy fe*t deep -with the fallen buildings. Not 
cm kessMsi bui'.dinK' is left intact. 
Thin destruction includes all of the county 
kDlidinKi' The four atory courthouse, with its 
high bane. is merely ■ Pile o* broken masonry. 
Sotiinp if loft. Identification is " ; saslole. 
Trial'* as not destroyed by the earthquake 
iabeen swept by fire. T'nti! the flames started 
tlmwas hope of saving the residence district. 
ltn» soon apparent that any aoeh idea that 
B&t h«ve Itren entt-rtained was to be abau- 

Thin was arprecintel by the citizens, nnd they 
prepsred to desert their homos. Xot even their 
toehold poods irere taker. They made for 
ftp fields and hills, to watch the destruction at 
ax of the most beautiful cities of the West. 
Messengers bring the saddest tidings of the 
instruction Healdsburg:, Ge'.serville. Clo 
rtrSaif. Hnpland and I'kiah. This report takes 
toth" country as far north as Mendocino and 
Like counties and as far west as the Pacific 
Dwa. These are frontier counties and have 
notai Inrce towns as further rth. 
In even' fare the loss of life and property 
> 8P Fh'xkirip a? hrra. 

WS ANGELES SHAKEN. 

Stick Cause* Panic, but No Damage 
J< Reported. 
lai Angeles. April VJ.— Los Ar.geies experi 
•Hd a Cistlnct earthquake shock of short 
tacton at 11!:33 o'clock this afternoon. No 
fatujewas don*>. but thousands of people were 
•"•Jbtenel Occupants of offlce lmMdinss, ospe 
s^yef tall Btructures. ran out into the streets 
fettle* Many stores were deserted by custnm 
ttsr,'] c!erk=. Tiif shock passed soon, and most 
£ those wh'i had fled rr-turned to the bulldi^ss. 
Ear. FVanrisro horror hris etrung the i>op 
~2* hpt-e V. a high tension, and the sultry 
tf *'i*r serves •<-> in'-r^a?* the general rvous 
sat 
ftttthocV appearc-d t" be general throughout 
kuOxßn California: Much alarm wati felt, but 
•aaasje has requited so far as own. 
forivors of the Pan Franr ism earl bquake ar 
**fl h»r«- to-day on a train over the Valley 
Jr * cf the Southern Pacific. Many of them 
*»fe r pltlabi* condition. 
"• E- Frai-klin. head of th" I'nited States 
*B*r Bureau iv this city, In biS roj.. rt of 
"'* ?*th<jtak«\ ir-n minutes after it occurred, 
•ii: 
* j ! " rf ' "' Vsik nnihlng at a!! unuwual in the 
2*- '' was <.f h-irdly F-jfllclent p'.rensth to 
Js* "»•• pendulum of "the larpe clock in my 
**. 2i:d consisted of a pinjrle undulation. Th« 
ESv-***™* 4 ; " l>< * moving from north to 

tow: 

; wiped oi'T. 

™Ba%, in . ihern California, 
S- ' fj rr« Serio usly. 
t^"*Anr ( >.. A7>r:i ig. — Reports fror.i Braw- 
JT 1 * *r.is!i unrn <,n th« Southern Pacific, 
-* :i;> s M ,...., of j^ Ans .pi OB< fay that the 
r '.is ; >rs , ;; <a ry v.ipcil otit by the eirth 
j-3*e cf jrtsterday. This is th<> only town in 
fcnoWn i> !:av.- r.-jffereJ from 
?**3ck. Southern J'aclf.c officials here to-<lay 
*/ th.- following buiUJiuffS ihetv, all bricl: 
&s***• v.cip destroy ad: Dwvley Bank buiid 
>-"a-Jiin biii.'nng tiei-1 :I:.- principal Tiierch:>.n 
s*^Jdtes« it ti:« t ,-.vn. In addition <:.>z.-ns 
J"W*e houses wr-r.- rszed. So far us known 
J*« Wer< no fauJitlcs. ihav. Jcy is about two 
5? *M ;m<j his a population of about ilve 
WK DEAD IN SAN JOSE. 

pJhta Buildings Damaged — Hall 
cf Records Wrecked. 
J*sJoet, C*l . A;rii 19.— Latft.it report* to-da:' 
* **« t-a persons weva killed by the earth 
?** in ii».n losC Th« Hal: of itecords is de 
2[?ft '-' ".t:; aj tk« Hail of Jji-rtlo*. AJI the 
■ced. 
*« Tucker. In charse of the Udl C!::-erva 
&*T* rXo <!amage waa dono to tne InstrU 
y* or tb# btil.iin S3S 3 of the ob?ervato--y i-> the 

To-dajr. f l r . 
10-morron. f:iir: viiitl, nintls. 

CALIFORNIA STREET, LOOKING WEST TOWARD XOB HILL. 
The Fairmount Hotel is seen at the top of the hill. All the buildings in the picture are reported destroyed. 

San Francisco. April 19. — The district in Cali 
fornia street from Powell to Jones street, known 
ns Xcb Hill, ivhlch was swetit by fire, contained 
the most palatial homes of San Francisco. The 
summit of the hill is about five hundred' feet 
above the eea level and gives a magnificent 
view of San Francisco Bay and the country for 
many miles around. At the southwest corner of 
California and Powell streets, just on the brink 
of the hill, was the Stanford house. At the 
death of Mrs. Stanford, about a year ago in 
Honolulu, the mansion became the property of 
Leland Stanford, jr.. University. It contained 
many treasures? of great value. On the south 

PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT APPEALS FOR AID. 

ASKS THAT CONTRIBUTIONS FOR SAN FRANCISCO'S 
RELIEF BE SENT THROUGH RED CROSS. 

Washir.gton April 19. — President Roosevelt, 
after a conference with Miss Mabel Boardman. 
of the American National Red Cross, to-day is 
sued, in the form of a proclamation, an appeal to 
the American people for aid for the people of 
San Francisco. He asked that all contributions 
be made through the officials of the American 
National Red Cross, who have made systematic 
arrangements for the distribution of the needed 
assistance. Tnt futl text of the President's proc 
lamation follows: 

In the face of so terrible and appalling a na 
tional calamity as that which has befallen San 
Francisco, the outpouring of the nations aid 
should, as far as possible, be intrusted to trie 

NEW YORK GIVES HAL 
Citizens Respond to J 

John D. Rockefeller $100,000 j 
New York Stock Exchange 85,000 
Ladenburg. Thalmann & Co. and allies 75.000 
M. Gugger.heirr/s Sons 50.000 
J. P. Morgan & Co 25,000 
Morris K. Jesup 10 - oo:) 
August Belmont & Co 10.000 
J. & W. Seligman 10,000 
H. E. Huntington 10,000 
H. G. Otis I0 ' 000 
Robins Dry Goods Company io.ooo» 
J. Henry Smith 10,000 
BIG GIFTS FROM 
Portland, Ore $160,000 | 
Massachusetts 100,000 
Chicago 75,ooo! 

FEAR FOR NEW VESSELS. 

Government linn Three Cruisers on 
Stocks at Union Iron Works. 
Washington. April Some concern is felt 
at the Navy Department as to the fate of the 
Union Iron Works, In Ban Francisco. There 
are und*>r construction there on account of the 
government three warships—the armored cruiser 
California. 13.680 tons; the armored cruiser 
South Dakota, a sister ship, and the protected 
cruiser Milwaukee, 9.700 t<ms. 
Vessels on the .stocks are much " ro exposed 
to disa-ter than ships afloat In case of earth 
quake or fire, and the hM of aucn craft as 
these would he very seriously felt. 

MR. MILLS TO REBUILD. 

Intend* to Restore MUls Building 
as Soon as Possible. 
Some question having been raised us to the 
future of Saa Francisco. D. " Mills said yester 
,jav that it *vas his Intention to begin as soon 
as possible the reconstruction of the Mills Build 
ing in that city. He had n.< doubt that there 
would be a quick revival of hope and confidence 
and that the city would be rapidly rebuilt. Mr. 
\IHU f-aid he had not been able to obtain any 
crfvate Information from San Francisco, but be 
assumed from the published reports thai the 
31111 a Uuildins had been destroyed by the lire. 

A SHOCK IS BOSS lA. 

Sharp Movement from West to East 
Felt at 11 A. M. 
Sirayevo. Bosnia, April 19.-At 11 o'clock this 
morning a short, sharp earthquake shock was 
felt.' It *as undulatory In character, and moved 
from west to east. 

MRS. OELRICHS A HEAVY LOSER. 
•"r* ncraann Oelrlchs and Mrs. "William K. 
Vnnfierbllt, Jr.. h.er« of tho late Senator 
IZr -, re ain f the heavy 10-rn. by the*.:. 
££&.» . Isaster. Tt:e IkilJi of Mrs. OsMchsa 
fSuno is in Han Francisco, and It Is reported 
th-u JOJr hundred houses belOTfrinp to Mrs 
Wlllikm X Vai.derbHt. Jr.. have been destroyed. 

NEW- YORK. FRIDAY, APRIL 20. 1906.-SIXTEEN PAGE&r-wnS7!im;« 

east corner of the same block stood the home of 
tlie late Mark Hopkins, who amassed many 
millions, along with Senator Stanford, C. P. 
Huntington and Charles Crocker, in the con 
struction of the Central Pacific Railroad. The 
Hopkins home was presented to the T'nlversity 
of California by Mr. Hopkins's heirs, and it was 
known as the Hopkins Art Institute. 
Across California street from the Stanford 
and Hopkins homes was the Fairmount Hotel, 
which had been under construction for more 
than two years, and was almost ready for occu 
pancy. It was a handsome white stone struct 
ure, seven stories high, and occupied a block. 

American ReJ Cross, the national organization 
best fitted to undertake such relief work.. A 
specially appointed Red Cross agent. Dr. Edward 
Devine, starts to-day from New York for Cali 
fornia to co-operate there with the Red Cross 
branch in the work of relief. 
In order that this work may be well sya 
tematized. and in order that the contributions 
which I am sure will flow in with lavish gen 
erosity may be wisely administered, I appeal to 
the people of the United States, to all cities, 
chambers of commerce, boards of trade, relief 
committees and individuals to express their 
sympathy and render their aid by contributions 
to the American National Red Cross. They can 
be sent to the Hon. Charles Hallam Keep, Red 
Cross treasurer, Washington, D. C; Jacob H. 
Schiff, New York. Red Cress treasurer, or other 
local Red Cross treasurers, to be forwarded by 
telegraph from Washington to the Red Cross 
pcients and officers in California. 
9 THEODORE ROOSEVELT. 

A MILLION DOLLARS. 
Francisco's Call. 

Brown Bros. & Co $10,000 
Lazard Freres 10,000 
Local Councils of Knights of Columbus 10,000 
Mrs. Phoebe A. Hearst 5.000 
G. S. Nixon 5.000 
M. M. Rothschild & Co., of London, 
by August Belmont & Co 5,000 
Mrs. C. P. Huntington s>°oo 
Charles M. Schwab 5.000 
Clarence H. Mackay 5.000 
George J. Gould s> oo ° 
OTHER CITIES. 
Sacrarr.erto $50,000 
Philadelphia 70.000 
Carnegie Hero Fund (Pittsburg) 25,000 

EXPRESSES DEEP REGRET. 

The President Sends Sympathy to 
Stricken Universities. 
Washington, Arril — President Roosevelt 
learned with deep rcarret of the wrecking of the 
buildinps of the University of California and of 
the Iceland Stanford Jr., University by the 
earthquake '"•>-. y he sent the following tele 
granis of sympathy: 

White House, Washington. April 1!». 1!* m;. 
President B. ! Wheeler, L T nlversit> of California, 
Berkeley. Cal. 
I earnestly hope tlie University of California 
tag . .i Buffered .is much .'i-< Is reported ! share 
the horror and srl»-f of the country ;n the disas 
ter thai 'k.s befallen California. 
THEODORE RO< >Si:YFJ.T. 
The White House. 
Washington. A(>;il 18. 1906. 
President I>:ivi«3 Starr Jordan, Stanford Univer 
sity. California. 
An: inexpressibly shocked hy the dreadful 
ralamlty Th!>i h;is befallen California, and have 
deep persona] con crn and sympathy over :he de 
struction of the buildings of L land Stanford. I 
most earnestly hope that things are noi i 
as ih"y :ir report* d. 
THEODORE }:o< ►SEVEL.T 

MANILA ALSO SHAKEN. 

No Damage Reported from the 
Shock of April 18. 
Manila. April i:> Twent: minutes aft 
earthquake in San Francisco on April !*■< sym 
pathetic aelsrolc waves were fell ai Manila. 
The oscillations were iiiefly horizontal, the 
vertical vibrationi bicn are usually disas 
trous, were slight No damage was done. 

(ABLE LINES BROKEN. 

Honolulu Without Communication 
with San Francinco. 
Manila. April 20. 2:80 a. m —Honolulu reports 
n-Tf la ro romiminiration with Bar Fran- 
I i 

rwent] rral «■■ ■. brtwien Now Voih : and 
1-. .*..., Ly ti.e tie* V..rU Central Linen- Adv.. 

Onp block west cf the Fairmount was the 
Flood home, a huge hrown«=tone mansio^i. said 
to have cost more than $1,000,000. The Hunt 
ington home occupied the block in California 
street just west of the Flood house. The 
Crocker house, with its huge lawns and mag 
nificent stables, was on the west of the Hunt 
ington home. Many other beautiful and costly 
homca w*»re on the hill. 

A mile further west, on Pacific Heights, are 
many costly homes of recent construction, but 
these appear to have escaped destruction. 

ART TREASURES LOST. 

Huntington Paintings, Willed to 
Metropolitan Museum, Destroyed. 
The Metropolitan Museum of Art has lost, in 
the San Francisco fire, nearly all of the paint 
lnes bequeathed to it hy Collis P. Huntington. 
The fire that swept over Nob Hill early yester 
day morning overwhelmed, the old <"ollis P. 
Huntington house, in California street, between 
Mason and Taylor streets. Stored in the old 
house was the greater part of the art treasures 
collected by the railroad man. In addition to the 
pi, Cures comprising the. Metropolitan legacy 
were nearly one hundred othera of lesser note. 
Mr. Huntington sVomI rears in acquiring thh» 
collection. When he died the best pictures in his 
collect inn were willed to the Metropolitan Mu 
seum. A condition in the will, however, left 
them in the possession at the family during th<> 
lives of Mrs Huntington and Archer M. Hunt- 
Ington, and not until their death could they be 
hung In the. Museum. 

pictures in the legacy Mrs. Huntington 
brought east, and they now hang in her Fifth 
avenue house and her house at Throg's Neck, 
but they form only a fraction of the entire col 
lection left by Mr. Huntington, and the loss to 
the Museum represented by the destroyed patot- 
Inga will amount to m.yiy thousands. 
Mr Huntington said last night that he had 
been in receipt of private dispatches from Oak 
land, by way of Los Angeles, which Indicated 
that'll was Impossible to exaggerate the disas 
ter. He said that ho believed the entire city 
would be totally wiped out of existence 

OFFERS $2,000 FOR NEWS. 

Another Will Pay $100 a Word for 
News of Wife in San Francisco. 
[ rty Telegraph to Th<? Tribune. ) 
Boston, April 19. One thousand dollars for a 
ten-word message from San Francisco to Bos 
ton waa offered to-day by Walter Bcott Hale. 
who fears that his wife, and children may be 
among the many who perished In the earth 
quake. Hale is at the Hotel Thon dike. 
A Boston woman offered the Commercial Cable 
Company's office at Rockport $2,000 If it would 
get word to her daughter-in-law in San Fran 
cisco and answer by way of Guam. The com 
pany was unable to fill the commission, though 
In communication with San Francisco >>>• way of 
Guam. A cable message was received last night 
by M!* Kinsman, -> f Gloucester, from Harry 
Harrington, superintendent cf the Guam cable 
office, formerly of Rockport. He reported a rela 
tive of -•':' s - Kinsman alive, but endangered by 
the fire. 

TWO MILLIONS IN BLAZE. 

Residue of Stanford Estate in Vaults 
of Wrecked Building. 
It became known yestertey that in the vaults 
of the fourteen story building of the Union 
Trust Company, of San Francisco, which was 
blown up by dynamite in an effort t<. retard the 
progress O i the Barnes that devastated the city. 
was In ail probability, the sum of J2.000.000. 
representing the residue of the estate of Mrs. 
Leiand Stanford, the widow of Senator Stan 
ford, founder of the Leland Stanford. Jr.. Uni 
\ ersity, at Palo Alto. 
The executor.- of Mrs. Stanford's will recently 
practically completed the winding up of her 
estate and on April 6. only thirteen days before 
the trthquake, they turned over to the trust 
company J2.000.000 to hold as trustees for the 
legatees until a bu!l now in the courts, which 
v.ill d( ..... the amount of Inheritance tax to be 
paid, shall have been settled. This decision waa 
expected early In May. 
There are several heirs, relatives of Mrs. Stan 
ford, and they are nov.- wondering If their in 
heritance has been. lost to them. The Union 
Trust Company building was one of the newest 
offlce structures in San Francisco. and cost 
J1.500.000. 

1:25 P. M. SATURDAY SPECIAL 
TO ATLANTIC CITY 
April 51 and 2S. via Pennsylvania R:.Urr.ad. Buff« 
parlor cam and coach««. Special train of parlor 
can and Olnlns '••« r it,.. ■■■■ t hi sj leaves A ;Vi ! U', 
City f..r >;..„ york at i-ZO 1». A!. Sundays. April 11 
and :•■ .St Li . at Newark in each direcuou.— Artvt. 

SAN FRANCISCO BURNING YET 

Greater Part of the City in Ruins, and All Apparently 
Doomed. 

THOUSANDS HOMELESS AND DESTITUTE, 

Flames Sweep Nob Hill — Desperate but Futile Efforts to Check Them — 
Refugees Streaming Out oi the City. 

San Francisco. April I..- Alt efforts to check I 
the apnsji of the flames at Van N<<ss avewas by j 
hlowitiß up a mite of fcajlMlnip on tho t>! f side | 
of that sn-fvt have prov.il fruitless. Tho In i 
has spread across tho broad ibennashfare, and 
from present imii.-ations the western addition, 
which contains the ii.-ni'-s of the wealthiiT essss, 
is doomed. The desi ruction of the western ad 
dition will complete the work of the ravaging 
flames and mark the devastation of the entire 
city f 
San Francisco to-nlgM is the city desolate. It 
seems that the anno of misery was reached at 
dusk, when rt.naes burst from all sides of the 
beautiful Hotel Fnirniount. the structure that, 
i!l>nve everj- other, was apparently most strong 
ly entrenched against the attack of the all con 
suming hie. Surrounding thnt lofty pinnacle as] 
flame, as far as the eye «-oul<! nee to the south, 
to the east and far out to the west, lay in cruel, 
fantastic heaps, charred and smoking, all that 
remained of a on<-e prosperous city. The me 
tropolis of l lie Pa< in<- Coast was In ashes. 
This has been another day of an uneven 
struggle of men ajrainst an unconquerable ele 
ment. Acre after acre has been ground into 
| dust and ashes, despite the heroic perseverance 
of the firemen to limit tho conflagration. 
To-nitrht there is a hope that the worst has 
been nearly reached and that when to-morrow 
dawns the end will have come, but the hope 
is faint. If the flames can be barred from the 
western addition, then the end will be written 
to the great disaster. 
San Francisco is not discouraged. Its best 
and highest class has already begun to plan for 
restoration aud to care f<>r the stricken ones, 
and the relief will be immediate and effective. 
Total subscriptions of $ISO,OOO were announced 
to-night. Arrangement* were made for the im 
mediate relief of the needy. The baking of 
fifty thousand loaves of bread daily will begin 
to-morrow. Free transportation will be pro 
vided by the Southern Pacific Railroad to desti 
tute persons desiring to go to interior point*. \ 
With each Rinreeding hour the devastation 
grows. The entire business and wholesale dis 
trict is a mass of coals and ashes, while the 
lir-" has reached westwiir.i far beyond Taa Ness 
avenue, wiping out buildings and seeking more 
to devour. 
At 4 o'clock .Mayor Schmitz and Chief of Po 
lice Dinan decided that the only hope of pav 
ing the western addition, with its forest of 
frame dwellings, aud the Ki.hmond district, 
with its thousands of homes, was to .heck the 
fire at Van Ness avenue, which crosses the city 
from north to south where the residences be 
gin. This avenue is ninety feet wide, and the 
possibilities of choking the march of the flames 
there looked hopeful. Orders were given to 
concentrate every fire engine in the city at this 
avenue, to marshal soldiers, police and all 
workers, and make one last stand to save the 
remainder of the city. 
Huge cannon were drawu to the avenue to 
aid the dynamiters in blowing up the mansions 
of the millionaires on the east side of Van Ness 
I avenue. Every available pound of dynamite 
; was hauled to this i>oint, and the sight was one 
of stupendous and appalling havoc, as the can 
non were trained on the palaces and the shot 
tore into the walls and toppled the buildings In 
crushing ruins. At other points dynamite was 
used. and. house after house, the dwellings of 
millionaires were lifted into the air by the 
power of the blfisr. and dropped to the earth 
a mass of dust and debris. The work was dan 
gerous, and many of the men. who kept working 
for forty-eight hours without sleep and scarcely 
any food, may have been killed while making 
this last desperate stand. 
The fire line ar P. o'clock extended a mile along 
the east, sid of Van Ness avenue, from Pacific 
street to Ellis. All behind this, excepting the 
Russian Hill region and a small district along 
! the north beach, had b«en swept clean by the 
flames. 
The steady booming of the artillery and the 
roar of tie dynamite above the howling and 
cracking ol the flames continued for honrs with 
monotonous resnlarity. Such noises have been 
I bombarding the ears of the panic-stricken peo 
ple since the earthquake of Wednesday morn 
ing. 

To-night throe distinct fires were burning. 
One was In the territory th:.r extends from Nob 
Hill easterly toward the waterfront. Ir was 
travelling slowly northerly toward the Tele 
graph IflU section and may die out from lack 
of material or may sweep toward the extreme 
waterfront. 

The seo.nd centre «ag in the Mission dis 
trict. Here the fire had reached l*th street. 
but was making little headway toward the hill 
aldce to the vest, where thousands of rx-ople 
:ire ciunped. 

Tht third and most dangerous fire is that 
threatening the western part of the city. Th.s 
Is. really a continuation of the Nob Hill fire. 
It is wedge shaped, with the apex pointing for 
ward. This is the point against which the fire 
men are bending their greatest efforts. Dyna 
mite was used for back firing purposes with 
only fair success. To-nigbr many blocks may 
be blown up. 

The Olympic Club, at Post and Mason streets. 

ATLANTIC CITY AUTOMOBILE RACES 
Anril 25. -* and 27. Siiperior servif« via P-nnsylva 
'nttt Railroad. Throuch fast espress train* every 
day.— AdvL , 

' PRICE TIIEEE CENTS. 

the oldest regßjlart) organized athletic axso* 
fiat ion In the United States and noted for Its 
appointment* and the number of athletes it has 
devflorw.nl, was. ininW t;> a skeleton. . The 
building was worth aWMHI and it* furnishings, 
were of the tinest quality. 
The great new Flood Building, built by Jamas) 
Flood at a caat of $4,000,000 and occupied about 
a year ago ; the new Merchants' Exchange Bnild 
ing. in California street, erected at a cost «f 
$2,500,000; the Crocker Building, at Montgom 
ery and Market streets, worth $1,000,000; the> 
Mills Building, at Bush and Montgomery ; 
streets, costing $1,000,000; the new Shrero 
Rnildiutj. at Post street and Grant avenue, cost- 
Ing $2,000,000, and occupied on April 1 by thai 
largest jewelry store on the coast, are som* af' 
the new structures destroyed by the flames. ■ 
The Shreve Jewelry Company carried a stocfc 
worth $2,000,000. * 
In Market. street the Phelan Building, one ©C 
the earliest attempts at a pretentlons work of. 
architecture in the business district, and oorer-j 
ing the most valuable piece of real estate In 
San Francisco, is gone. Tho great group of j 
municipal buildings, standing on. a piece of. 
ground bounded by Larftin, McAllister and 
Grove streets, erected by the city of San Fran 
cisco at a cost of *7.00CM)00 and known as th» 
city and county buildings, are now a mass of 
smoldering ruins. With the buildings wera 
probably destroyed the city and county re<*or<is» . 
The Occidental Hotel, on Montgomery street, 
for years the headtjuarters of army officers; the 
old Lick house, built by James Lick, the phil 
anthropist; the old Rnss house, also in Mont 
gomery street: the Nerada National Bank block,' 
the Hayward Building, at California and Mont 
gomery street?, a modern structure of ten 
stories; the severe gothic style California Na 
tional Bant, the First National Bank, the Ca 
nadian Bank of Commerce, the London and San 
Francisco Bank, in California street; the Lon 
don. Paris and American Bank, and the Bank 
of British North America, in Sansomo street; 
the large German-American Savings Bank, ajso 
in California street — these are a few of the 
notable buildings destroyed in that region. 
The California Hotel and Theatre, in B»wh 
street, near Montgomery; the Grand Opera 
House. in Mission street, where the Conri^l 
Grand Opera Company had just opened for a 
season of two weeks; the Orphenm. the Colum 
bia. the Alcazar, the Majestic, the Central and 
Fisher's were some of the playhouse* destroyed. 
Among the splendid apartment houses de 
stroyed are: 
In Geary Street — The St. Augustine, the 
Alexandria, the Victoria. 
In Snter — The Pleasanton, the Aber 
deen, the Waldeck, the Granada. 
In Pine Street— Colonial, the-Loma Vista 
and the Buena Vista. 
In Ellis Street— The Dnfferin, the Hamilton, 
the Ellis, the Royal, the Hart, th© Ascot and 
the SL Catherine. 
In OFarrell Street— Eugene, the Knoir 
the SL George, the Ramon and the Gotham. 
In Taylor Street— The Abbey. 
In Eddy Street— The Abbottsford. , jr ; : 
In Turk Street— The Netherlands. ,>r%\Y, 
In Polk Street-The Savoy. " gj^ I 
In Bush Street— The Plymouth. 
San Francisco was famous for the exteUanes) 
of its restaurants. Among them were tba 
Pup and Marchand'3 In Stockton street; th«* 
Poodle Dog, Zlnkand's and the Fiesta. Thvf 
are no more. 
At the Junction of Kearney, Market and Geary, 
streets stood the three great newspaper bafld* 
ings of San Francisco— "The Call" (Spreckeb). 
"The Examiner" and "ThfrChronlcle." All wer«» 
destroyed. 
Two blocks north in Kearney streetTrer© *Tli« 
Bulletin" and "The Post" baUdinsa. Th;y also 
i are gone. 
Among the large department stores destroyed 
are the Emporium and Hales and Prager's In 
j Market street; in Kearney street, the Whits* 
house. O'Connor & Moff art's, Newman & Levin 
j son. Roos Bros., Raphael's, the Hub and many 
'< lesser establishments; in Geary street were 
i the Davis, the City of Paris; Samuels, on Post 
{ street: Vel Staruss in Sansome street, as well 
j as Wallace's. Nathan, I>ohrman & Co. and Bul 
lock and Jones. 

Ky the bnrning of the St Francis Hotel. 
$4,000.0«>0 went up in smoke. This magnificent 
building, which af the time of Its destruction 
was being enlarged ar great expense, was filled 
with guests. Among those at the hotel when 
the building was destroyed were James Riley 
and wife, of the Hotel Waleatt, New York City: 
several members of the Metropolitan Opera 
Company of New York, and many other Eastern 
visitors. It wa« reported that no one was lv 
jured at the St. Francis. Adolphus Busch and 
party left the hotel when It was apparent that 
♦he building was doomed, and they are now 
with relatives at the.Presidlo. The opera stager* 
at this hotel, as well as those at the Palace 
Hotel, lost their all. with the exception of seT 
era! violins valued at $12,000, which were saved 
from the Cames at the eleventh hoar by Nahan 
Franko, the musical director of the company. 
Costumes, scenery, personal belongings anil 
musical instruments, everything succumbed to 

The N'fw YCTk Central ShrhM tour to California 
will be run u» *nlvwti*Mt. If botala at slan Kran 
cisco aro not available, ••hi- p*«.pi». will be cared for 
at nearby reports. Writo. M C Roach. Ast't U«n"'_ 
Pass'r Agent. 1216 Broadway. City.— Adrt. 

